Android flash bad blocks check:
1、	查看手机分区的挂载(view the mount of the phone partition)
A)、df 命令(command)：
a)、adb shell df(直接adb 命令使用)
 
b)、adb shell 
df
 

B)、mount 命令(command)：
a)、adb shell mount
 
b)、adb shell 
mount
 

C)、查看proc/mounts
adb shell mounts
 

adb shell
	cat proc/mounts
 
	D)、view block name
      adb shell cat /proc/partitions
cat /proc/partitions
 
2、	badblocks 命令
位于system/bin or system/xbin  目录下的命令； 
检测对应的分区命令：
-b<区块大小> 指定磁盘的区块大小，单位为字节。
-o<输出文件> 将检查的结果写入指定的输出文件。
-s 在检查时显示进度。
-v 执行时显示详细的信息。
-w 在检查时，执行写入测试。(此参数必须在umount 下才能使用)

Options:

-w: do a destructive write test
-s: show progress
-v: be "verbose" and output bad sectors detected to stdout
Additional options you might consider:

-b number: specify the block size of the hard disk which can significantly improve testing time. (# tune2fs -l partition)
-p number: run through the extensive four pass test number of sequent iterations
-o /path/to/output-file: print bad sectors to output-file instead of stdout
-t test_pattern: Specify a pattern. See below.

a)、badblocks -s -v /dev/block/dm-1
 
 

badblocks 读写检测(Read and write detection)
b)、badblocks -s -v -w /dev/block/mmcblk0p36

如果分区已经被挂载会提示：
If the partition has been mounted, it will prompt
 
对分区取消挂载
Unmount the partition

umount /cache
 

完整操作如下图：
The complete operation is as follows:

 

c)、保存日志(Save the log)
badblocks -s -v -w /dev/block/mmcblk0p36 > /mnt/sdcard/info_log.txt     
 

d)、使用umount命令时,该分区不能正在使用否则会不成功
When using the umount command, the partition cannot be used or it will not succeed.
 

3、	e2fsck命令
e2fsck命令用于检查第二扩展文件系统的完整性，通过适当的选项可以尝试修复出现的错误。

e2fsck执行后的传回值及代表意义如下：

0 没有任何错误发生。
1 文件系统发生错误，并且已经修正。
2 文件系统发生错误，并且已经修正。
4 文件系统发生错误，但没有修正。
8 运作时发生错误。
16 使用的语法发生错误。
128 共享的函数库发生错误。

EXIT CODE  top
The exit code returned by e2fsck is the sum of the following
       conditions:
0    - No errors
1    - File system errors corrected
2    - File system errors corrected, system should
                   be rebooted
4    - File system errors left uncorrected
8    - Operational error
16   - Usage or syntax error
32   - E2fsck canceled by user request
   128  - Shared library error


使用该命令：e2fsck(选项)(参数)

选项：
-a：不询问使用者意见，便自动修复文件系统；
-b<superblock>：指定superblock，而不使用预设的superblock；
-B<区块大小>：指定区块的大小，单位为字节；
-c：一并执行badblocks，以标示损坏的区块；
-C：将检查过程的信息完整记录在file descriptor中，使得整个检查过程都能完整监控；
-d：显示排错信息；
-f：即使文件系统没有错误迹象，仍强制地检查正确性；
-F：执行前先清除设备的缓冲区；
-l<文件>：将文件中指定的区块加到损坏区块列表；
-L<文件>：先清除损坏区块列表，再将文件中指定的区块加到损坏区块列表。因此损坏区块列表的区块跟文件中指定的区块是一样的；
-n：以只读模式开启文件系统，并采取非互动方式执行，所有的问题对话均设置以"no"回答；
-p：不询问使用者意见，便自动修复文件系统；
-r：此参数只为了兼容性而存在，并无实际作用；
-s：如果文件系统的字节顺序不适当，就交换字节顺序，否则不做任何动作；
-S：不管文件系统的字节顺序，一律交换字节顺序；
-t：显示时间信息；
-v：执行时显示详细的信息；
-V：显示版本信息；
-y：采取非互动方式执行，所有的问题均设置以"yes"回答。

参数
文件系统或者分区：指定文件系统或者分区所对应的设备文件名。

用此命令检测是否坏块其实也是调用badblocks命令


OPTIONS         top
       -a     This option does the same thing as the -p option.  It is
              provided for backwards compatibility only; it is suggested
              that people use -p option whenever possible.

       -b superblock
              Instead of using the normal superblock, use an alternative
              superblock specified by superblock.  This option is normally
              used when the primary superblock has been corrupted.  The
              location of backup superblocks is dependent on the
              filesystem's blocksize, the number of blocks per group, and
              features such as sparse_super.

              Additional backup superblocks can be determined by using the
              mke2fs program using the -n option to print out where the
              superblocks exist, supposing mke2fs is supplied with arguments
              that are consistent with the filesystem's layout (e.g.
              blocksize, blocks per group, sparse_super, etc.).

              If an alternative superblock is specified and the filesystem
              is not opened read-only, e2fsck will make sure that the
              primary superblock is updated appropriately upon completion of
              the filesystem check.

       -B blocksize
              Normally, e2fsck will search for the superblock at various
              different block sizes in an attempt to find the appropriate
              block size.  This search can be fooled in some cases.  This
              option forces e2fsck to only try locating the superblock at a
              particular blocksize.  If the superblock is not found, e2fsck
              will terminate with a fatal error.

       -c     This option causes e2fsck to use badblocks(8) program to do a
              read-only scan of the device in order to find any bad blocks.
              If any bad blocks are found, they are added to the bad block
              inode to prevent them from being allocated to a file or
              directory.  If this option is specified twice, then the bad
              block scan will be done using a non-destructive read-write
              test.

       -C fd  This option causes e2fsck to write completion information to
              the specified file descriptor so that the progress of the
              filesystem check can be monitored.  This option is typically
              used by programs which are running e2fsck.  If the file
              descriptor number is negative, then absolute value of the file
              descriptor will be used, and the progress information will be
              suppressed initially.  It can later be enabled by sending the
              e2fsck process a SIGUSR1 signal.  If the file descriptor
              specified is 0, e2fsck will print a completion bar as it goes
              about its business.  This requires that e2fsck is running on a
              video console or terminal.

       -d     Print debugging output (useless unless you are debugging
              e2fsck).

       -D     Optimize directories in filesystem.  This option causes e2fsck
              to try to optimize all directories, either by reindexing them
              if the filesystem supports directory indexing,  or by sorting
              and compressing directories for smaller directories, or for
              filesystems using traditional linear directories.

              Even without the -D option, e2fsck may sometimes optimize a
              few directories --- for example, if directory indexing is
              enabled and a directory is not indexed and would benefit from
              being indexed, or if the index structures are corrupted and
              need to be rebuilt.  The -D option forces all directories in
              the filesystem to be optimized.  This can sometimes make them
              a little smaller and slightly faster to search, but in
              practice, you should rarely need to use this option.

              The -D option will detect directory entries with duplicate
              names in a single directory, which e2fsck normally does not
              enforce for performance reasons.

       -E extended_options
              Set e2fsck extended options.  Extended options are comma
              separated, and may take an argument using the equals ('=')
              sign.  The following options are supported:

                   ea_ver=extended_attribute_version
                          Set the version of the extended attribute blocks
                          which e2fsck will require while checking the
                          filesystem.  The version number may be 1 or 2.
                          The default extended attribute version format is
                          2.

                   journal_only
                          Only replay the journal if required, but do not
                          perform any further checks or repairs.

                   fragcheck
                          During pass 1, print a detailed report of any
                          discontiguous blocks for files in the filesystem.

                   discard
                          Attempt to discard free blocks and unused inode
                          blocks after the full filesystem check (discarding
                          blocks is useful on solid state devices and sparse
                          / thin-provisioned storage). Note that discard is
                          done in pass 5 AFTER the filesystem has been fully
                          checked and only if it does not contain
                          recognizable errors. However there might be cases
                          where e2fsck does not fully recognize a problem
                          and hence in this case this option may prevent you
                          from further manual data recovery.

                   nodiscard
                          Do not attempt to discard free blocks and unused
                          inode blocks. This option is exactly the opposite
                          of discard option. This is set as default.

                   no_optimize_extents
                          Do not offer to optimize the extent tree by
                          eliminating unnecessary width or depth.  This can
                          also be enabled in the options section of
                          /etc/e2fsck.conf.

                   optimize_extents
                          Offer to optimize the extent tree by eliminating
                          unnecessary width or depth.  This is the default
                          unless otherwise specified in /etc/e2fsck.conf.

                   inode_count_fullmap
                          Trade off using memory for speed when checking a
                          file system with a large number of hard-linked
                          files.  The amount of memory required is
                          proportional to the number of inodes in the file
                          system.  For large file systems, this can be
                          gigabytes of memory.  (For example, a 40TB file
                          system with 2.8 billion inodes will consume an
                          additional 5.7 GB memory if this optimization is
                          enabled.)  This optimization can also be enabled
                          in the options section of /etc/e2fsck.conf.

                   no_inode_count_fullmap
                          Disable the inode_count_fullmap optimization.
                          This is the default unless otherwise specified in
                          /etc/e2fsck.conf.

                   readahead_kb
                          Use this many KiB of memory to pre-fetch metadata
                          in the hopes of reducing e2fsck runtime.  By
                          default, this is set to the size of two block
                          groups' inode tables (typically 4MiB on a regular
                          ext4 filesystem); if this amount is more than
                          1/50th of total physical memory, readahead is
                          disabled.  Set this to zero to disable readahead
                          entirely.

                   bmap2extent
                          Convert block-mapped files to extent-mapped files.

                   fixes_only
                          Only fix damaged metadata; do not optimize htree
                          directories or compress extent trees.  This option
                          is incompatible with the -D and -E bmap2extent
                          options.

                   unshare_blocks
                          If the filesystem has shared blocks, with the
                          shared blocks read-only feature enabled, then this
                          will unshare all shared blocks and unset the read-
                          only feature bit. If there is not enough free
                          space then the operation will fail.  If the
                          filesystem does not have the read-only feature
                          bit, but has shared blocks anyway, then this
                          option will have no effect. Note when using this
                          option, if there is no free space to clone blocks,
                          there is no prompt to delete files and instead the
                          operation will fail.

                          Note that unshare_blocks implies the "-f" option
                          to ensure that all passes are run. Additionally,
                          if "-n" is also specified, e2fsck will simulate
                          trying to allocate enough space to deduplicate. If
                          this fails, the exit code will be non-zero.

       -f     Force checking even if the file system seems clean.

       -F     Flush the filesystem device's buffer caches before beginning.
              Only really useful for doing e2fsck time trials.

       -j external-journal
              Set the pathname where the external-journal for this
              filesystem can be found.

       -k     When combined with the -c option, any existing bad blocks in
              the bad blocks list are preserved, and any new bad blocks
              found by running badblocks(8) will be added to the existing
              bad blocks list.

       -l filename
              Add the block numbers listed in the file specified by filename
              to the list of bad blocks.  The format of this file is the
              same as the one generated by the badblocks(8) program.  Note
              that the block numbers are based on the blocksize of the
              filesystem.  Hence, badblocks(8) must be given the blocksize
              of the filesystem in order to obtain correct results.  As a
              result, it is much simpler and safer to use the -c option to
              e2fsck, since it will assure that the correct parameters are
              passed to the badblocks program.

       -L filename
              Set the bad blocks list to be the list of blocks specified by
              filename.  (This option is the same as the -l option, except
              the bad blocks list is cleared before the blocks listed in the
              file are added to the bad blocks list.)

       -n     Open the filesystem read-only, and assume an answer of `no' to
              all questions.  Allows e2fsck to be used non-interactively.
              This option may not be specified at the same time as the -p or
              -y options.

       -p     Automatically repair ("preen") the file system.  This option
              will cause e2fsck to automatically fix any filesystem problems
              that can be safely fixed without human intervention.  If
              e2fsck discovers a problem which may require the system
              administrator to take additional corrective action, e2fsck
              will print a description of the problem and then exit with the
              value 4 logically or'ed into the exit code.  (See the EXIT
              CODE section.)  This option is normally used by the system's
              boot scripts.  It may not be specified at the same time as the
              -n or -y options.

       -r     This option does nothing at all; it is provided only for
              backwards compatibility.

       -t     Print timing statistics for e2fsck.  If this option is used
              twice, additional timing statistics are printed on a pass by
              pass basis.

       -v     Verbose mode.

       -V     Print version information and exit.

       -y     Assume an answer of `yes' to all questions; allows e2fsck to
              be used non-interactively.  This option may not be specified
              at the same time as the -n or -p options.

       -z undo_file
              Before overwriting a file system block, write the old contents
              of the block to an undo file.  This undo file can be used with
              e2undo(8) to restore the old contents of the file system
              should something go wrong.  If the empty string is passed as
              the undo_file argument, the undo file will be written to a
              file named e2fsck-device.e2undo in the directory specified via
              the E2FSPROGS_UNDO_DIR environment variable.

              WARNING: The undo file cannot be used to recover from a power
              or system crash.



如果使用命令时出现下面情况：
If you use the command, the following happens:
 
请参考https://blog.csdn.net/qq_29343201/article/details/52214054 说明对系统或者命令重新编译
Please refer to https://blog.csdn.net/qq_29343201/article/details/52214054 for recompiling the system or command.

使用此命令必须分区在umout下进行
Use this command to partition under umout

e2fsck -v -t -c /dev/block/mmcblk0p21
 

4、	使用Androbench应用对flash进行IO测试
using the Androbench application for IO test of flash
https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.andromeda.androbench2
 

 
	QPS（Queries per second每秒查询数）
	IOPS（input/output operations per second每秒输入/输出操作）is the standard unit of measurement for the maximum number of reads and writes to non-contiguous storage locations.是对非连续存储位置的最大读取和写入次数的标准测量单位。


或者测试应用(CPDT Benchmark〉Storage﹣Memory﹣RAМ﹣SD-Card﹣Disk﹣SSD)
https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.Saplin.CPDT&rdid=com.Saplin.CPDT
(不同应用有不同的计算方式，做对比要同应用同环境做对比)
(Different applications have different calculation methods, and comparisons should be compared with the application environment)

